# i18n

We use [react-i18next](https://react.i18next.com/) to handle internationalization.

## Adding new languages

1. Create a new directory in `packages/web/src/public/locales/` with the locale code (ie `en`).
2. Copy the json files from another language into the new directory and update the strings for the new language.
3. Add the code the localized name of the language to `packages/web/src/app/languages.json`.


## Bible Name Translations
The data in `packages/web/src/public/locales/<locale-code>/bible.json` is used to parse and generate references in each language. There are 3 keys for each book of the Bible. For reference, here is some data from `en/bible.json` for Genesis:  
```
  "gen": "Genesis",
  "gen_short": "Gen",
  "gen_match": ["Genesis", "Gen", "Gn"],
```  
The first line is the title of the book (Genesis). The second line is the short-hand abbreviation of the book title (Gen). The third line is an array of aliases that should be accepted for the book (Genesis, Gen, and Gn).  

The first three characters of each key in `bible.json` identify the book. See `packages/web/src/features/translation/book-keys.ts` for an array of all the book keys. If you copied `bible.json` from another language, you should already have all the correct keys.

There are also two keys at the top of the file for formatting references and parsing references.   
* `reference_format` should contain `{{bookName}}`, `{{chapterNumber}}`, and `{{verseNumber}}`, along with whatever other characters are needed to generate a human-readable reference
* `reference_regex` should be a regex with 3 matching groups